[Rick and Morty main theme]
[Jerry] ♪ Last king Christmas
last arrived ♪
♪ on the Christmas Christmas ♪
[sniffs] Jerry, you are really
giving it to this ham.
Um, merry Christmas? Hello?
My parents come over
for the first time in years,
can we stow the gadgets and look alive?
Alive? For your parents?
-Good one
-Hey, man!
You hey man!
This holiday is about humanity.
You know, I thought it was
about being born half-god or something.
Okay, whatever. All electronic items
are going in the stocking. Now.
Dad, I'm not giving you my phone.
Put it in the stocking, Summer,
or I'm joining Facebook.
A-ho, ho, ho, everybody.
More like whoa whoa whoa,
what is this, my parents are coming.
Calm down, Jerry,
this is Reuben, an old friend.
Pearl Harbor.
I check in on him once a year and give him
a little [burps] medical evaluation.
Aww! Dad, that is so sweet!
-Yeah it is. I don't get it.
-Korea.
Don't worry about your [burps] Christmas.
I'll be with Reuben in my workshop
while you guys are having another day
in Phil Collins' proverbial Paradise.
Huh. You think you know a guy.
[doorbell rings]
Okay, there's my parents. Now remember:
no TV, no phones, no laptops,
we are connecting this Christmas,
like old school Jews on a Saturday.
-Hey hey.
-Merry Christmas, son.
Uh... hi, can I help you?
Jerry, this is Jacob.
Didn't you get our text message?
No.
You must be Jerry. That's
a fine looking apron. Williams Sonoma?
I wish, but thank you.
So you're a... friend of the family...?
The way we see it,
he's a part of the family.
Wow.
After your father's brush with cancer,
and losing your uncle,
we looked at life and wondered,
how have we spent it,
and how do we spend the rest of it?
What are we going to be when we die?
A list of fears and questions
or a collection of real experiences?
Holy crap, Joyce, that's amazing.
Then Jacob came into our lives,
and... we're learning to live again.
All three of us.
[confused] Cool. Egg nog?
Now we are talking. This man's got
the apron and the egg nog, huh.
[all laugh]
-Heh. Hi Joyce. Leonard. Hello there.
-Merry Christmas, man.
Morty, a moment of your time?
-He's in bad shape, Morty.
-Aw, geez, Rick, what'd you do?
Gee, thanks, Morty,
what kind of monster do you think I am?
I'm sitting here trying to save
the guy's life. I need your help.
I want you to find Dr. Xenon Bloom,
he'll know what's going on.
Where do I find Dr. Bloom?
-In Reuben.
-Reuben, Minne-Minnesota?
Reuben on the table, Morty,
look, I don't have time to [burps]
for you to wrap your little walnut
around everything.
Just hold your breath until the process
is over or your lungs will collapse.
What proce--? [screams]
-Hey, dad, where's Morty?
-[burps] He's busy.
-[Rick] Can you hear me? Head North.
-Rick? Where am I?
Depending on my aim, you should be
just south of the entrance.
-[Morty] Entrance to what?
-Welcome, Morty.
[Rick] Welcome... to Anatomy Park.
It's a business venture I've been
cooking up on the side with Doctor Bloom.
[Rick] An amusement park
inside a human body.
Science isn't cheap. This
should help put a dent in the overhead.
Oh my god, this is insane.
Spleen Mountain...
Bladder Falls... Pirates of the Pancreas?
[Rick] Got a problem with that last one.
Huh? No. I'm just reading 'em out loud
in the order that I'm seeing 'em.
[Rick] Okay, if I sounded
a little defensive,
it's because Pirates of the Pancreas
was my baby.
I got a lot of push-back when I pitched
it. I guess I'm still a little defensive.
Let's just find Doctor Bloom.
I'm picking up
[Rick] a distress signal
in the liver. Proceed.
[loudspeaker] Arriving at... liver.
Mind the gap.
It's really scary in here, Rick.
[Rick] The liver's under maintenance.
Reuben has seen some rough years.
Don't judge.
Don't agree to have a theme park built
inside you if your life goes OK.
[scream]
[scared] Rick! It's a monster!
[Rick] No no no, Morty.
The only monster here is Alcoholism.
That is an animatronic werewolf.
Who are you? Answer me!
Where'd you come from?
[stammers] My grandpa Rick sent me.
Poncho! That's quite enough.
Morty, that's Poncho.
This is Roger and Annie.
And I am Dr. Xenon Bloom.
[Rick] Bloom, it's Rick,
what is going on here?
I don't know why, but the security system
has shut down...
and I'm afraid...
the exhibits are unlocked.
Exhibits?
Anatomy Park's greatest attraction,
young man,
isn't the music or the food
or the... Pirates of the Pancreas--
[Rick] Watch it.
It is, first and foremost,
a living museum of humanity's
most noble and ferocious diseases.
Diseases?
Hey, doc. I got news for ya.
[Poncho] Your living museum
is officially a wild safari.
Hepatitis A! Run!
[shouts] Move, move, move!
Oh, the food goes in your mouth, girl.
[all laugh]
Oh, Jacob.
I'm sorry, Jacob,
I guess I'm still confused
about the precise nature
and origin of your relationship
with my parents,
are you like their caretaker,
is that what it is...?
-We can go into detail later, son.
-Now, wait, there's no point to secrecy,
let's all live and die honestly.
Your mother and I have shared forty years
of each other, mind, body and soul.
And when minds and souls
are joined for eternity...
...and when eternity is at the door...
it's an invitation to let go of the body.
And an opportunity
to share and experiment.
Dad, please, what are you saying?
Whatever it is, it's beautiful, Leonard,
and we support you.
Speak for yourself,
because it [nervous laugh] sounds
like you're about to say
Jacob is your lover.
No, no no no no no.
Jacob is your mother's lover.
I watch them,
sometimes from a chair,
sometimes from a closet,
almost always dressed as Superman.
Jerry, this ham has got to be
all you, right? It's incredible.
Happy Human Holiday, dad.
[yells]
Hepatitis won't follow us
into the respiratory system.
That's strange.
Airflow is down twenty percent.
So the brain isn't getting enough oxygen.
That's why security's offline.
Well, I guess we better check it out.
-Hey! Wait for me!
-[angry] Put that back on!
If we got up to the bronchial catwalk
we could look for a blockage.
I'll go.
-[Poncho] Don't be a hero, kid.
-I'm not, I'm doing it because it's fun.
We shouldn't be here.
Whatever you do,
do not fire that thing in here.
We must save Reuben.
This is my life's work.
[shrieks]
It's all right, my dear.
Nearly all human lungs contain
a strain of these bacteria,
but the scar tissue
keeps them... dormant...
Morty, get down!
[screams]
-Oh, what are those things?
-Tuberculosis! Coming in fast!
-Not faster than a bullet!
-No! Do you know what you've done?
[all scream]
Get to the digestive tract!
He's coughing!
[shouts] Don't let me die!
Just take a deep breath, Reuben.
You're not gonna die! What's your name?
My name is--
Rick! Reuben's got tuberculosis!
Oh, great work, Morty!
Okay, I'll just cure it and then--
Okay. Well, I can't cure death.
This is bad, Morty.
You're trapped in a dead man.
If the situation keeps darkening
[Rick] do yourself a favor
and pop by Pirates of the Pancreas.
Obviously I'm biased,
but I think it's great.
It's a bunch of [burps] pirates
running around a [burps] pancreas.
We don't whitewash it either, Morty.
I mean, the pirates are really rapey.
The top priority is to get
you guys out of there
but, I'm saying, if it becomes impossible,
please you gotta treat yourself.
Oh, man, what is that horrible smell?
You mean the Panda Express?
[laughs] Kidding. I'm kidding.
The body is beginning
to constrict and fill with gas.
We're inside a corpse, my boy.
Anatomy Park is doomed.
Forget about the park, Doctor.
How do we get out?
The digestive tract
is the evacuation route. Get it?
There's an emergency station in the colon
with a ray that can enlarge us all.
Everybody, head for the colon.
Now I'm taking orders
from a twelve year old boy?
Morty. The scar sacs containing
the tuberculosis were sabotaged.
This disaster was an inside job.
Keep your eye on Annie.
She was written up several times
by her manager at the churro stand.
Intestines are ahead to the left.
Then to the right. Then left, etcetera.
Hey, just so you know,
I'm actually fourteen. So, you know..
-What?
-Not twelve.
Okay.
You know, because,
he just said I was twelve.
Oh. Good for you.
[Rick] Oof. Ugh, Morty. Strike one.
♪ It's a road of wonder
a trail of food ♪
♪ It's a pathway to break up
the bad and good ♪
♪ It's a tube that digests
and then sends out the rest ♪
♪ It's a small, small intestine ♪
-It goes on like this for miles.
-Then we get to the large intestine.
Sshh. I hear something.
Don't move. Gonorrhea can't see us
if we don't... move...
Wait, I was wrong,
I was thinking of a T. Rex!
Move!
We're sitting ducks!
Doc, didn't you say
that the body was filling with gas?
Yes. Why?
-Kid. You're a genius.
-Are you mad?
Everybody, in here!
Hey, Gonorrhea!
How's this for a burning sensation?
♪ Drummer drum drum drum drum drum
drum drum drum drum Christmas drums ♪
Oh, sing it, Summer.
Oh, I love to hear you sing.
♪ Christmas drums being played by a boy,
skid-op op dop dop dop dop dip dop ♪
Jerry, come on, this is what you wanted.
I get it, Beth.
Be careful what you wish for.
I'm being punished for taking your iPad.
What? Jerry, let that stuff go. Okay?
I'm sorry I was a bitch earlier,
let's just be here.
-Summer!
-Ethan? What are you doing here?
I've been texting you for hours,
what the hell!
I don't have my phone,
I'm doing a human holiday!
Well did you even consider
how that might make me feel?
How you feel? Why is everything
always happening to you?
-Summer, do you have a boyfriend?
-Yeah, do you, Summer?
I don't know, Ethan, do I?
Jerry, no disrespect, but you really need
to connect more with your family, man.
[Roger] I should be able to access
the generator
to get the growth ray online.
If it works, we'll be regular sized
in a few minutes.
I hope Reuben's not in a room
with carpets or upholstery.
-What the hell is that?
-The sphincter dam.
We built it when Reuben
became incontinent,
but it was not designed
to hold a corpse load.
I've almost got it.
Everybody move inside the circle.
Poncho, what is this in your backpack?
That's bubonic plague!
What are you doing with that, Poncho?
-Everybody get back!
-Poncho, you son of a bitch!
You released the tuberculosis
so you could steal from me?
That's right, baby!
A lot of people would pay top dollar
to decimate the population.
I'll take the highest bidder:
Al Quaeda, North Korea, Republicans,
Shriners, balding men that work out,
people on the internet that are turned on
by cartoons of Japanese teenagers,
anything is better than working for you,
you pompous, negligent, iTunes-gift card
as a holiday bonus giving mother--
[screams] Come on!
Ouch!
[screams]
-You guys...
-It's gonna burst! Go! Go! Go! Go!
-My foot is stuck.
-No!
It's okay. It's okay. Just go.
Tell my family I love them.
They may be hard to find,
my wife kept her last name
and she made the kids take it,
I don't know you can Google--
No!
Let me ask you a question, Ethan.
-Where's the anger coming from, man?
-From Summer being a total bitch!
Where's the anger coming from?
My brother... took me fishing once...
in the bushes...
I can't... I can't...
He made me feel like a girl!
He made me a girl!
He didn't make you anything, man.
You are who you are.
She is who she is,
now you go to her, brand new.
Come here right now.
Oh my God, I'm so sorry,
Ethan. I love you.
I love you so much.
You did it again, Cubbie. Come here.
No! Stop! I hate this!
Well, Christmas doesn't revolve around
what you hate, son.
Well, then I hate Christmas!
Enjoy being human,
you guys are gross and lame!
[Reuben] My name's Reuben Ridley.
You're inside me right now,
but by the end of this journey,
I'll be inside all of you.
My story begins during the dot com crash
in the early nineties.
[whispers] You can put your fingers
wherever you want...
Morty, you want to put it on mute
or something. I'm trying to concentrate.
Rick?
Not now, Jerry. I've got much,
much smaller fish to fry.
I wanted to say,
I'm sorry I ever judged you.
Right now, you're my sanest relative.
Relative... relative size! Jerry, hand me
a scalpel and a bundle of dynamite.
Morty! Can you get to the left nipple?
I'm hoping I can get to both of 'em, Rick.
[Rick] No, I'm talking
about Rueben's left nipple!
[explosion]
We need to get to the left nipple!
The body is decaying,
the arterial transit system is useless...
We can try the service shuttle.
It's connected to the skeletal system.
That's why we call it the bone train.
Would you like to ride
the bone train, miss?
-If it'll get us out of here.
-How about you, Morty,
would you like to ride the bone train?
Why are you doing this bit?
We're gonna die, let's go.
Well, I can see you're busy...
Merry Christmas, Rick.
There's no autopilot. One of us will have
to stay here and operate it manually.
No, you're right. It was a dick move
for me to even pause like that.
This is all my fault. You go on.
What the hell is that?
E. Coli outbreak! Hurry!
Oh. Wait. There is an autopilot. Wait!
It's okay! Never mind,
I wanted to sacrifice myself anyway.
They're chewing through the doors!
We're in the areola, almost to the nipple,
but we're also in a really bad situation!
[Rick] I'm almost there, Morty!
[anchorman] Reports from all over
the country have been coming in
about what appears to be...
...a giant, naked man over
the continental United States.
We now go to Tom Randolph
in New York. Tom?
Well, the eyes aren't twinkling
and the dimples aren't merry,
but I'm standing under a nose like
a seventy mile cherry...
Thank you, Tom. Let's go now
to Eric McMahan in Los Angeles.
We've got feet here
on the West Coast, Bill.
Giant feet, even relative
to the giant man's size,
and you know what they say about that.
Well, if the old adage is true,
one can only wonder what's going down
in the Rocky Mountains.
[yells]
-Oh my god, the track!
-[Annie] It's Hepatitis A!
-The nipple hole.
-It's beautiful.
Oh, no!
[surprised] Whoa! It's Hepatitis C!
Um... Wait, did we have some sort
of relationship with him?
I think they're just like that?
I think they're just good guys.
-[Rick] Where's Dr. Bloom?
-I'm sorry, Rick, but, he's dead!
God damn it, Morty,
I ask you to do one thing.
Jerry doesn't know what he's missing.
He'll come around, Beth.
Christmas is a special time.
It has funny ways
of bringing families together.
I don't know. Jerry got an invitation
to be alive today, and he rejected it.
I don't know if our marriage will--
It's raining blood!
Oh shit! Find Jerry!
-Jerry!
-It's all right,
the TV says there's nothing
to worry about.
The giant, naked sky Santa has exploded,
blood and chunks of viscera
are raining down on the country.
Everything should be fine.
[sighs of relief]
Oh yes.
-Dad, can I have my phone back?
-Sure, sweetie. Here.
Everybody take a device.
It'll help you relax.
-This is nice.
-Yeah.
Yeah, look, I guess we really learned
something this Christmas, Jacob.
No we didn't, dad. No we didn't.
Too bad about Dr. Bloom. He was a genius.
The only man capable
of creating a new Anatomy Park.
Actually, I studied Dr. Bloom's work.
I believe I have the knowledge necessary
to create an entirely new and safer park.
What about... Pirates of the Pancreas?
I think it was one
of the most underrated attractions.
Booyah. Hold your breath.
Hey, what the hell, Rick?
What the hell, man!
I liked her! I really had
something going there, Rick.
Yeah, so I heard.
[burps]You dodged a bullet, Morty.
Trust me. [whispers] Puffy vagina.
What's wrong with that? That doesn't
sound like a problem to me. I don't know.
Come on, let's get some stuffing,
I'm starving.
Oh, unbelievable.
We got a bunch a robot computer people,
sitting around with their faces stuffed
into computer screens.
Do you guys realize
that Christ was born today?
Jesus Christ, our savior, was born today.
Are you people even human?
What kind of Christmas is this?
[Annie] Hey, Rick?
Rick, can you hear me?
Loud and clear, Annie.
[Annie] Great. We're also on
with Alejandro, our chief imaginarian.
Natalie Jacobs and Chris DeSeter
from Microscopic Marketing,
Zack from organ concepts
and Jamie from new media.
Hey, everybody.
-Hey.
-Hi, Rick.
-[Annie] Pirates of the Pancreas.
-Talk to me.
[Alejandro] Rick,
it's Alejandro speaking.
Um, so, we asked ourselves internally,
we asked ourselves over here okay,
what does a pancreas do,
and the answer was,
does it make pirates?
No, it makes insulin,
you know so we're starting with a new--
Those guys are inside me, huh?
Like, building a park?
Those guys are inside you building
a piece of shit.
They're inside you
building a monument to compromise.
[bleep] 'em, [bleep] those people.
[bleep] this whole thing, Ethan.
Cool. And who pays me?